# Senior Engineer in Big Tech vs Start ups

I think this is a difficult comparison because its comparing apples to oranges. Speaking generally, an engineer at a big tech company thinks very differently from an engineer at a startup. It seems to me that a engineer in big tech evaluate problems with finer granularity and more depth because of the scale of big tech companies. Engineers in startups on the other hand often are seen wearing multiple hats and their contributions come in more forms that simply code. Its not uncommon to see a startup engineer contribute to product, design, and management. However, thinking about this a bit more, it seems like engineers in big tech have the opportunity to do the same. So now it feels like we are framing the problem wrong.

I think the concept of upward mobility is interesting because it now introduces a focus on the company. I do not think its productive to think about the worth of engineer based on whether he worked at a startup versus big tech. Rather what important is the organizations that an engineer has contributed to's level of engineering prestige. I think this is important because it provide a productive gauge as to what the quality of an engineers work will be when you hire him. Organizations with top level engineering prestige will be quick to rat out poor best practices and lazy engineering. To progress at these top engineering organization the engineer must be highly performant. To continuously contribute you must educate yourself constantly and embody concepts so that you can properly convince your peers to move in your proposed direction. These actions generally require a high level of logical competency and communication. So, I think a engineer should be gauged by his contributions to highly prestigious engineering organization or projects. I also think for an organization its important that prestigious engineer be a key investment during growth in order to attract top talent. It also really supports your past and current engineers when your organization becomes known for this.

Overall, I believe an engineer's seniority and competency is best gauged by the quality and impact of this contributions. I think the best way to seek that out is 